snakes
crocodiles big lizards not exactly a big
deal
i mean i guess they're less scary in
pictures
i take it back crocodile monitors are
the only reptiles other than snakes of
course
that have forked tongues no we're not
counting telemarketers
somehow that tongue helps them pick up
delicious scents
oh and they're also called tree
crocodiles
so if you ever thought you'd be safe up
in a tree if you got chased by a
crocodile
better think again they're full of
surprises including
impressive tree climbing skills they're
quite aggressive and
luckily they live far far away somewhere
in the mountains of new guinea
it may not be the giant dragon you saw
in that fantasy movie last week
but the komodo dragon is scary in its
own way
the biggest living lizard even has its
own island named after it
if you're ever in indonesia 300 pounds
10 feet long
definitely worth a look up from a
distance
this lizard tends to dig a huge hole
where it lays its eggs
as soon as the younger ones gain some
strength they run away from home and
climb up the nearest tree
not because they're being rebellious
more to avoid being eaten
yep they don't have the best parents in
the world since well
komodo dragons sometimes eat other
komodo dragons
so yeah this turtle is all about
breaking stereotypes
it looks like a dinosaur tried to crash
the annual turtle halloween party
a ridge shell rough skin and an insanely
strong bite
definitely not your average turtle they
live in swamps and fresh water lakes
and are definitely the largest and
meanest looking of all snapping turtles
out there
they're also the heaviest the biggest
one ever found
weighed almost 250 pounds because of the
algae growing on their shells
you might think you're looking at some
sort of oddly shaped rock
sticking out of the water finally a
scary movie starring a turtle as a bad
guy they walk at night and will
literally eat
everything they find i'm talking snakes
opossums
water birds squirrels other turtles and
this is the impressive part
even some smaller alligators i don't
know if i'm ever going to swim in the
lake again
snake time beady little eyes crazy
colored skin
yeah that's not the case with a
madagascar blind snake
these small reptiles look like skinny
pink worms and you're not exactly going
to stumble across them in the wild
they live underground and yes they have
really poor vision
they can only see blurry shapes and
shadows that's why they mainly hunt by
smell
blind snakes in general can grow up to a
foot long and they live on
all continents except antarctica and
speaking of snakes
i just can't leave out the cobra yellow
black striped
so many patterns and colors but there's
one you better hope you
never meet her the queen the red
spitting cobra
this one won't bite you to inject its
venom it's got a bit more of a rude
approach
it contracts the muscles around its
venom gland and spit some out
right into your face it seems like a way
scarier tactic than a regular old bike
but there's a catch this cobra's venom
doesn't work if it falls on your skin
or even gets into your mouth for things
to get really nasty
it has to get into your eyes
i mean it's not like animals have such
an amazing aim that they can nail you in
the eye while you're running away right
well there was an experiment and those
spitting cobras
managed to hit a researcher's
goggle-covered eyes
10 out of 10 times
speaking of snakes no way speaking of
turtles
ok snake neck turtles i got it
eventually
when you see one roaming around you
might think it's a snake that's
borrowing its buddy's house while it's
out of town
but no this turtle's neck is almost half
its total size
how awesome would we look with necks
like that
no thanks they mostly chill in wetlands
or swamps
some of them are also known as stinkers
like me
and you can find out why if you catch
one having a bad day
they can launch their stinky spray more
than three feet
well that beats me pac-man frogs named
after the greatest game ever
according to that weird guy you met at
the grocery store
have round plum bodies with pretty big
stomachs and mouths
they come in different colors including
apricot strawberry
and albino so red yellow and white i
guess
they're pretty lazy and not into
climbing or even moving
they do have teeth though and they won't
hesitate to bite if you touch them
luckily they're not poisonous but it
probably wouldn't feel that good to have
a frog
hanging from your finger no i guess it
wouldn't
this is agario one of the strangest and
most unique crocodiles out there
check out that ridiculous snout but it
does come in handy when it's trying to
catch
fish unlike crocodiles that stalk and
then lunge at their prey
gharial sense vibrations in the water
then they whip their heads from side to
side then it's sushi time
their jaws have more than a hundred
teeth gharials prefer to stay
in the water most of the time but
sometimes they go out to chill if it's
sunny enough
just give them a clear fresh water river
and they'll be happy
yeah no need to tell me twice lizards
snakes frogs
step aside please turtles are slowly but
surely taking over this video
strap yourselves in for the pig nose
turtle
it's another freshwater turtle this time
with a long snout
complete with two big nostrils it gets
its name because
duh that sweet snout allows it to
breathe while the rest of its body stays
under water
that way it can keep its body hidden
it's safe from any underwater danger too
since its belly looks sort of like the
reflections made by nearby trees
it may look funny but this turtles had
its own camouflage tactics
and totally unique look for the last 140
million years
that's way before the dinosaurs went
extinct
the leaf nose snake has a quite
elongated body
and a bizarre nose that looks kind of
like a bendy leaf
okay so this pinocchio snake comes from
madagascar
and lives in trees and you might easily
mistake it for a branch
this snake chills during the day and
goes out at night
to find itself some delicious smaller
reptiles frogs
and even birds
picture yourself on a sandy tropical
beach the sea
coconuts palms and iguanas
yeah these guys hang out everywhere in
the sand up trees
on walls they live all the way from
mexico to brazil
and love to chill anywhere sunny it's
not just a relaxing hobby
they need the sunlight for its vitamin d
which helps them absorb more nutrients
from their food
and no worries iguanas aren't dangerous
as long as they don't feel threatened if
they do
well luckily they're not venomous but
they do have
sharp teeth that can cause some serious
discomfort
oh and you know how those smaller
lizards lose their tail when they get
stuck
or when you step on them the same thing
happens to iguanas
legless lizard is a reptile that's
always getting mistaken for a snake
it actually lost its legs and arms not
overnight of course but
through millions of years of evolution
snakes lost their legs and
arms even earlier still there are real
differences between them
if you get up close and personal with a
legless lizard
you'll see that it blinks but snakes on
the other hand
they don't even have eyelids they
protect their eyes with see-through
membranes snakes actually have shorter
tails
while legless lizards well they're
mostly tail
now you're totally ready for next
monday's quiz night
reptile edition gotta say it again
turtles are rocking this video
and this time i mean literally mary
river turtles look
just awesome it's not like you see a
reptile with a green
mohawk every day but this little turtle
has a secret
that's not its natural hair it's
actually algae
slimy